Okay, so in this particular
video, let's get our hands
dirty with Express js.
Okay?
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to CD into my coding folder
and into the node js folder.
And here I'm going to create a new
directory that is 01 express, right?
So we are going to
start with Express.
Let's go into this 01 Express folder
and I'll just do a code dot
and now, because you're becoming
a backend developer, these terminal
commands you should know, okay?
Because usually we do remote
configurations on a server.
So.
So it's very important to
understand these commands as well.
So don't worry, these are not
very difficult as you work
on them, you will understand them.
So guys, this is my empty folder.
You can see that.
So first things first, you have
to do npm init, you can do hyphen y.
So let's just do npm in it.
Okay?
So you have a package name.
Let's call it as Express Application.
So Express app, version one,
description, entry point,
test, command, git,
repository, all that stuff.
Cool.
Now we have to install Express,
okay, And the types.
So first npm install
at the rate types/ node so that I
get the typings number one.
Second is you have
to install express.
So npm I express.
So what this does, okay, this will
basically download the Express
module, the Express package for you.
Now if you go into Your package or
JSON, boom, you are using Express
4.2111 and you are using at the rate
type node that is in this version.
So now you are using two
dependencies and you can
see all the code is here.
Now piyush, we just
installed two libraries.
How come these many
libraries are coming?
Like accepts is coming, array,
flatten, body, parser, and a lot
of things are coming.
That's because if you go into our
package JSON and you search
for express here, the Express,
the, the module express actually
depends on a lot of things, right?
Can you see that?
The Express module itself depends
on all these things internally.
So all these code is also pulled.
So you can see accepts is
there, arrow flatten is there.
So this all is coming
from the Express library.
So now you have your Express ready.
Now you have your types
are there node ready.
So let me just create
an index js file where we are
going to code, right?
So what I have to do is first
of all let's import,
let's require the express, okay,
let's require the Express.
So you can see Express is here.
Now what I have to do is I have
to create an application.
Okay, so this is coming all
from the documentation.
So const app is equals to express.
So let's create an app.
So app is equals to express.
So this basically creates
an application for me.
So this app and using this app I can
structure my server.
Okay, so for example, let's say
I want to create a get route.
So I can just say app.uh get.
Now see guys, do you see that
I'm not getting the typings
for this express package.
I am not getting any
kind of suggestion.
So that means you have to install at
the rate types for the express now.
Okay, so you have
to install the types for this.
So this will help the VS code to see
that what are the typings available?
So yeah, you it's installed now
you can see app get is there.
So you can see all
the modules are now here.
Okay, so let's say that I want that.
Hey, if there is a get request
on what path?
On slash.
That means the homepage.
Then you can have
a function here, right?
That is a request, a response.
And then you can just
say response dot end.
Okay, response dot end saying that
you know you are at a homepage.
So you can just say home page.
Then if there is a get request
on slash contact us.
Then what you can do is you can
just write a function that is
request and response and you can
just say response dot end.
Okay, response dot end Saying
you can contact contact me
at my email address.
Okay, so this part is also good.
Then you can just say
app dot let's say post.
Okay, app dot post.
You want to make
a post out, go ahead.
Slash tweets.
Okay, so what you can do, you can
just say hey, here is a function.
You can even give an arrow function.
That is what we are going
to use majorly.
So request response and you
can just say response.uh
end and you can say tweet created.
Okay, tweet created.
Success.
Now you want to set
a status code, right?
By default Express is always going
to send a 200 but you
can change that functionality
by doing dot status and you
can pass a status code of 201.
So now this particular line
is going to send a 201.
By default it is 200 status quo.
But now it is going
to send two zero one.
And finally let's just do an app
dot listen on some port.
Let's say I want to listen
on port 8000 and A.
Callback function saying console.log
that your server is
running on port 8000, right?
So yeah, that, that's amazing, right?
So with this Express, can you see
that how clean the application is,
how I, I can define the routes.
So I can say, hey,
post route for this.
Similarly you can just say I,
have dot get so slash tweets so
I can just make a slash tweets.
And then there is this particular
stuff and you have
request, you have response.
So you can just copy.
I'll just copy this line
and I can say that here are your
tweets, here are your tweets.
So how well I am able
to structure my code, right?
Everything is modular.
So if even I hire more developers,
they can go on adding their routes.
So this, this is one block,
this is one block, this is
one block, this is one block.
So this framework is providing
you a structure on how you can
structure your code, right?
So let me just configure
a start script.
So here we can configure a start
script and this start script
is going to be node hyphen,
hyphen Var and I can just say
index js so npm Start enter.
Your server is running.
Let's give it a try.
So you have the Thunder client here.
So if I make a post request,
I'm getting a 404 because there
is no post request, right?
There is no post request
for contact us.
It's actually a get request.
So yeah, it's working good.
Similarly, if I go here and I do
a send homepage is also working.
If I do let's say slash tweets,
slash tweets and send.
You can see here I have tweets,
so everything is working fine.
But the only difference is that this
particular piece of code is now well
structured and managed by Express.
Okay?
So you can do all this stuff like
request headers, request single
header, request raw headers.
So it internally does a lot
of things and gives you
all these things, right?
Request cookies.
Is there request accepts,
is there accepted is here.
So you can see that you have a lot
of things on the request also.
Similarly, you can just say
response.end to send a simple
response response JSON to send
a JSON response response.x response
What else you have
response.render is there.
Then if you want to do a server side
rendering, so don't worry, we
will talk about these all things.
But Express not only gives you
a structure, but also gives you
a lot of capabilities, plugins
and you know, a lot of batteries.
So cool stuff.
Right?
So now I think you are able
to understand this code.
So just try to understand this code.
Are you able to understand
what we are doing?
So we are requiring the express,
creating an express.
So they have extracted this
port as a 3,000 as a variable.
So they're trying to listen
on this port and console log example
app is listening on this port.
And you have a get route that
is the slash root and response
send just in hello world.
So amazing.
Now if you see, if you see
in the guideline, you have a lot
of features, right?
You have routing middleware,
you have overriding express APIs,
templating, engine error handling,
debugging express behind proxies.
So all these things we are going
to cover in the upcoming videos.